
Has the Triple-Double lost it’s flair?

In recent years the NBA has seen a big jump in one of its most impressive statistical feats. The triple-double. What was once considered to be rare, has now become pretty much a normality. Last season alone there were a combined 117 triple doubles among all players. MVP of the league, Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder recorded 42 of them. He even averaged a triple double for the entire season. 
So the question is what's been the biggest difference? For one, players in today's NBA are asked to do more for their team. The league has become so fast paced that guards are now rebounding more often in order to start the offense quicker. Playmakers like Westbrook, James Harden, and LeBron James have taken advantage of the style of play. Bigs are no longer demanded to rebound the ball. Players like Steven Adams, Enes Kanter, and Clint Capela are more responsible for boxing out so that their guards can rebound. Also with the increase in three point shots, that means that there is an increase in long rebounds so it's not as congested for guards. We are no longer in an era where big men dominate the amount of touches in a game. This is a guards league and that’s usually who the best player is. So I’m almost certain the number of triple-doubles will be even higher next season. 
In comparison to previous seasons, there was a 56 percent increase in triple doubles from the 2015-2016 to the 2016-2017 season. The stat line is somewhat watered down. With so many players achieving the triple-double it takes away from the mystique and rarity of it. Think of it this way, there was a time where the leader for most triple-doubles in a season was then Celtics guard Rajon Rondo. He had six. To put everything in perspective; Westbrook had six in a six game stretch back in December 2016. That says a lot about the state of the NBA. The game is leaps and bounds ahead of what it was just four years ago. 
A big takeaway in all this data is that the trend is only going upward. With faster play, younger, more athletic players and the era of position-less basketball we will continue to see more triple doubles. Although the stat may not be as important as it used to be, the fans still love seeing their favorite player put up big numbers. Also in today's landscape of the NBA where most players are getting paid big dollars, players will be more inclined to pad their stats in order to get paid the maximum amount of money possible. 
